# `stm32f446 Nucleo`

The `stm32f446` example uses a [STM32F446 Nucleo Board](https://www.st.com/en/evaluation-tools/nucleo-f446re.html). The board has 1 user LED which will be blinked at different frequencies to indicate the BootFirmware and UpdateFirmware.

> Note 
> > - If you're using a different version of the board, you'll probably need to edit your firmware's `partition-adddresses` to accomodate for differences. 
> > - Just make sure you dont change the names of files or the folder structure, as cargo xtask looks for these file/folder names.

 ## Partitioning

The first step in integrating rustBoot is `flash-memory partitioning` i.e. we divide the `stm32f446`'s flash-memory into 4 partitions, taking into account the geometry of the flash memory. 

> You can read more about `mcu` partitoning [here](../arch/partitions.md#micro-controller-partitions)

In this example, we'll be using the following partitioning scheme. You can locate these constants in the [constants module](https://github.com/nihalpasham/rustBoot/blob/main/rustBoot/src/constants.rs)

```rust
#[cfg(feature = "stm32f446")]
pub const SECTOR_SIZE: usize = 0x20000;
#[cfg(feature = "stm32f446")]
pub const PARTITION_SIZE: usize = 0x20000;
#[cfg(feature = "stm32f446")]
pub const BOOT_PARTITION_ADDRESS: usize = 0x08020000;
#[cfg(feature = "stm32f446")]
pub const SWAP_PARTITION_ADDRESS: usize = 0x08060000;
#[cfg(feature = "stm32f446")]
pub const UPDATE_PARTITION_ADDRESS: usize = 0x08040000;
```
 **`RUSTBOOT partition:`** contains the bootloader (its code and data) and a (test) public-key embedded as part of the bootloader image, starts at address `0x0800_0000`.
- **`BOOT partition:`** contains boot firmware, starts at address `PARTITION_BOOT_ADDRESS`.
- **`UPDATE partition:`** contains update firmware, starts at address `UPDATE_PARTITION_ADDRESS`. The boot firmware is responsible for downloading and installing the update firmware into this partition via a secure channel.
- **`SWAP partition:`** is the temporary swap space, starts at address `SWAP_PARTITION_ADDRESS`. 

## Compiling, Signing and Programming: 

Now that we have properly partitioned the `stm32f446 Nucleo's` on-board flash-memory, the next step is - `compiling, signing and programming ` 

We will compile the following 
- bootloader 
- boot and update firmware

sign both pieces of firmware with a (test) [private-key](https://github.com/nihalpasham/rustBoot/tree/main/boards/rbSigner/keygen) and finally create valid [`rustBoot mcu-images`](../arch/images.md#mcu-image-format) i.e. signed boot and update firmware images.

Compiling, signing and programming can be performed via a single command

```MAC
cargo stm32f446 build-sign-flash rustBoot
```
This will build, sign and flash all 3 packages (i.e. bootloader + boot-fw + update-fw) onto the board.

> Note: 
> - The corresponding public-key is embedded in the bootloader's source.
> - In order to test this example, you'll have to install a couple of pre-requisites  as it uses probe-run to flash the binary.

```powershell
cargo install probe-rs-cli 
cargo install cargo-flash 
```
 
Here's the command line output that should be produced.

```
anand@anand-VirtualBox:~/Desktop/dev_space/Prod/rustBoot$ cargo stm32f446 build pkgs-for
   Compiling der v0.5.1
   Compiling typenum v1.15.0
   ..
   ..
   Compiling xtask v0.1.0 (/home/anand/Desktop/dev_space/Prod/rustBoot/xtask)
    Finished dev [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 8.51s
     Running `target/debug/xtask stm32f446 build pkgs-for`
$ cargo build --release
   Compiling subtle v2.4.1
   Compiling rand_core v0.6.3
   ..
   ..
   Compiling stm32f446_boot_fw v0.1.0 (/home/anand/Desktop/dev_space/Prod/rustBoot/boards/firmware/stm32f446/boot_fw_blinky_green)
    Finished release [optimized] target(s) in 30.43s
$ cargo build --release
   Compiling stm32f446_updt_fw v0.1.0 (/home/anand/Desktop/dev_space/Prod/rustBoot/boards/firmware/stm32f446/updt_fw_blinky_red)
    Finished release [optimized] target(s) in 1.10s
$ cargo build --release
   Compiling subtle v2.4.1
   Compiling rand_core v0.6.3
   ..
   ..
   Compiling rustBoot-update v0.1.0 (/home/anand/Desktop/dev_space/Prod/rustBoot/boards/update)
   Compiling stm32f446 v0.1.0 (/home/anand/Desktop/dev_space/Prod/rustBoot/boards/bootloaders/stm32f446)
    Finished release [optimized] target(s) in 30.34s

```
## Verifying:

`user led` is used to confirm that rustBoot works as expected. Here's the flow

- Upon supplying power to the board, rustBoot takes over 
    - validates the firmware image stored in the BOOT partition
    - verifies the signature attached against a known public key stored in the rustBoot image.
- If the signature checks out, rustBoot boots into the bootfw and blinks a `user led` for a few seconds, at the interval of 0.5 second.
    - post which, the boot firmware triggers the update and performs a system reset. 
- Upon reset, the rustBoot again takes over 
    - validates the firmware image stored in the UPDATE partition 
    - swaps the contents of the BOOT and the UPDATE partitions
    - marks the new firmware in the BOOT partition as in state STATE_TESTING
    - boots into the UPDATE'd firmware 
- Now that execution-control has been transfered to the UPDATE'd firmware
    - it will attempt to blink a `user led` at an interval of 1 second. 
    - and set a `confirmation flag` to indicate that the update was successful.
    - post which, it continuosly blinks a `user led` at interval of 1 second.