src/usage/stm32f746.md, before:

# `stm32f746`

The `stm32f746` example uses a [Nucleo-f746zg board](https://www.st.com/en/evaluation-tools/nucleo-f746zg.html). The board has three `LEDs` of which two `LEDs` are used in this example.

> Note:
> - If you're using a different version of the board, you'll probably need to edit your firmware's `partition-addresses` to accommodate for differences. 
> - Just make sure you don't change the names of files or the folder structure, as cargo xtask looks for these file/folder names.

## Partitioning:

The first step in integrating rustBoot is `flash-memory partitioning` i.e. we divide the `stm32f746`'s flash-memory into 4 partitions, taking into account the geometry of the flash memory.

> You can read more about `mcu` partitioning [here](../arch/partitions.md#micro-controller-partitions)

In this example, we'll be using the following partitioning scheme. You can locate these constants in the [constants module](https://github.com/nihalpasham/rustBoot/blob/main/rustBoot/src/constants.rs)

```rust

#[cfg(feature = "stm32f746")]
pub const SECTOR_SIZE: usize = 0x40000; 
#[cfg(feature = "stm32f746")]
pub const PARTITION_SIZE: usize = 0x40000;
#[cfg(feature = "stm32f746")]
pub const BOOT_PARTITION_ADDRESS: usize = 0x08040000;
#[cfg(feature = "stm32f746")]
pub const SWAP_PARTITION_ADDRESS: usize = 0x080C0000;
#[cfg(feature = "stm32f746")]
pub const UPDATE_PARTITION_ADDRESS: usize = 0x08080000;
```
- **`RUSTBOOT partition:`** contains the bootloader (its code and data) and a (test) public-key embedded as part of the bootloader image, starts at address `0x0`.
- **`BOOT partition:`** contains boot firmware, starts at address `PARTITION_BOOT_ADDRESS`.
- **`UPDATE partition:`** contains update firmware, starts at address `UPDATE_PARTITION_ADDRESS`. The boot firmware is responsible for downloading and installing the update firmware into this partition via a secure channel.
- **`SWAP partition:`** is the temporary swap space, starts at address `SWAP_PARTITION_ADDRESS`. 

## Compiling, Signing and Programming: 

Now that we have properly partitioned the `stm32f746`'s on-board flash-memory, the next step is - `compiling, signing and programming ` 

We will compile the following 
- bootloader 
- boot and update firmware

sign both pieces of firmware with a (test) [private-key](https://github.com/nihalpasham/rustBoot/tree/main/boards/rbSigner/keygen) and finally create valid [`rustBoot mcu-images`](../arch/images.md#mcu-image-format) i.e. signed boot and update firmware images.

Compiling, signing and programming can be performed via a single command

```Terminal
cargo stm32f746 build-sign-flash rustBoot 1234 1235
```
This will build, sign and flash all 3 packages (i.e. bootloader + boot-fw + update-fw) onto the board.

> Note: 
> - The corresponding public-key is embedded in the bootloader's source.
> - In order to test this example, you'll have to install a couple of pre-requisites - probe-rs-cli, python3 
> - Owing to the above mentioned dependencies, the command only works in a linux environment or with WSL2 in a windows environment. 

Here's the command line output that should be produced.

```Terminal
udayakumar@udayakumar-VirtualBox:~/devspace/rustBoot$ cargo stm32f746 build-sign-flash rustBoot 1234 1235
    Finished dev [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 0.04s
     Running `target/debug/xtask stm32f746 build-sign-flash rustBoot 1234 1235`
$ cargo build --release
   Compiling stm32f746_bootfw v0.1.0 (/home/udayakumar/devspace/rustBoot/boards/firmware/stm32f746/boot_fw_blinky_green)
    Finished release [optimized] target(s) in 0.99s
$ cargo build --release
   Compiling stm32f746_updtfw v0.1.0 (/home/udayakumar/devspace/rustBoot/boards/firmware/stm32f746/updt_fw_blinky_red)
    Finished release [optimized] target(s) in 0.95s
$ cargo build --release
    Finished release [optimized] target(s) in 0.09s
$ rust-objcopy -I elf32-littlearm ../../target/thumbv7em-none-eabihf/release/stm32f746_bootfw -O binary stm32f746_bootfw.bin
$ rust-objcopy -I elf32-littlearm ../../target/thumbv7em-none-eabihf/release/stm32f746_updtfw -O binary stm32f746_updtfw.bin
$ cargo run mcu-image ../boards/sign_images/signed_images/stm32f746_bootfw.bin nistp256 ../boards/sign_images/keygen/ecc256.der 1234
   Compiling libc v0.2.126
   Compiling rustBoot v0.1.0 (/home/udayakumar/devspace/rustBoot/rustBoot)
   Compiling filetime v0.2.17
   Compiling rbsigner v0.1.0 (/home/udayakumar/devspace/rustBoot/rbsigner)
    Finished dev [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 2.17s
     Running `/home/udayakumar/devspace/rustBoot/target/debug/rbsigner mcu-image ../boards/sign_images/signed_images/stm32f746_bootfw.bin nistp256 ../boards/sign_images/keygen/ecc256.der 1234`

Update type:    Firmware
Curve type:       nistp256
Input image:      stm32f746_bootfw.bin
Public key:       ecc256.der
Image version:    1234
Output image:     stm32f746_bootfw_v1234_signed.bin
Calculating sha256 digest...
Signing the firmware...
Done.
Output image successfully created with 2780 bytes.

$ cargo run mcu-image ../boards/sign_images/signed_images/stm32f746_updtfw.bin nistp256 ../boards/sign_images/keygen/ecc256.der 1235
    Finished dev [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 0.05s
     Running `/home/udayakumar/devspace/rustBoot/target/debug/rbsigner mcu-image ../boards/sign_images/signed_images/stm32f746_updtfw.bin nistp256 ../boards/sign_images/keygen/ecc256.der 1235`

Update type:    Firmware
Curve type:       nistp256
Input image:      stm32f746_updtfw.bin
Public key:       ecc256.der
Image version:    1235
Output image:     stm32f746_updtfw_v1235_signed.bin
Calculating sha256 digest...
Signing the firmware...
Done.
Output image successfully created with 2748 bytes.

$ probe-rs-cli erase --chip stm32f746zgtx
$ probe-rs-cli download --format Bin --base-address 0x8040000 --chip stm32f746zgtx stm32f746_bootfw_v1234_signed.bin
     Erasing sectors ✔ [00:00:03] [################################################################################################################] 256.00KiB/256.00KiB @ 72.27KiB/s (eta 0s )
 Programming pages   ✔ [00:00:02] [##################################################################################################################]  3.00KiB/ 3.00KiB @     353B/s (eta 0s )
    Finished in 6.153s
$ probe-rs-cli download --format Bin --base-address 0x8080000 --chip stm32f746zgtx stm32f746_updtfw_v1235_signed.bin
     Erasing sectors ✔ [00:00:03] [################################################################################################################] 256.00KiB/256.00KiB @ 72.63KiB/s (eta 0s )
 Programming pages   ✔ [00:00:02] [##################################################################################################################]  3.00KiB/ 3.00KiB @     351B/s (eta 0s )
    Finished in 6.171s
$ cargo flash --chip stm32f746zgtx --release
    Finished release [optimized] target(s) in 0.08s
    Flashing /home/udayakumar/devspace/rustBoot/boards/target/thumbv7em-none-eabihf/release/stm32f746
     Erasing sectors ✔ [00:00:02] [##################################################################################################################] 64.00KiB/64.00KiB @ 22.76KiB/s (eta 0s )
 Programming pages   ✔ [00:00:20] [##################################################################################################################] 43.00KiB/43.00KiB @  1.88KiB/s (eta 0s )
    Finished in 22.968s
udayakumar@udayakumar-VirtualBox:~/devspace/rustBoot$ 

```
## Verifying:

`blinky leds` are used to confirm that rustBoot works as expected. Here's the flow

- Upon supplying power to the board, rustBoot takes over 
    - validates the firmware image stored in the BOOT partition
    - verifies the signature attached against a known public key stored in the rustBoot image.
- If the signature checks out, rustBoot boots into the bootfw and blinks a `green-led` for a few seconds, 
    - post which, the boot firmware triggers the update and performs a system reset. 
- Upon reset, the rustBoot again takes over 
    - validates the firmware image stored in the UPDATE partition 
    - swaps the contents of the BOOT and the UPDATE partitions
    - marks the new firmware in the BOOT partition as in state STATE_TESTING
    - boots into the UPDATE'd firmware 
- Now that execution-control has been transferred to the UPDATE'd firmware
    - it will attempt to blink a `red-led` 
    - and set a `confirmation flag` to indicate that the update was successful.
    - post which, it continuously blinks a `red-led`.

Commit message:

Added note for ecc256 cargo-binutils requirement

src/usage/stm32f746.md, after:

# `stm32f746`

The `stm32f746` example uses a [Nucleo-f746zg board](https://www.st.com/en/evaluation-tools/nucleo-f746zg.html). The board has three `LEDs` of which two `LEDs` are used in this example.

> Note:
> - If you're using a different version of the board, you'll probably need to edit your firmware's `partition-addresses` to accommodate for differences. 
> - Just make sure you don't change the names of files or the folder structure, as cargo xtask looks for these file/folder names.

## Partitioning:

The first step in integrating rustBoot is `flash-memory partitioning` i.e. we divide the `stm32f746`'s flash-memory into 4 partitions, taking into account the geometry of the flash memory.

> You can read more about `mcu` partitioning [here](../arch/partitions.md#micro-controller-partitions)

In this example, we'll be using the following partitioning scheme. You can locate these constants in the [constants module](https://github.com/nihalpasham/rustBoot/blob/main/rustBoot/src/constants.rs)

```rust

#[cfg(feature = "stm32f746")]
pub const SECTOR_SIZE: usize = 0x40000; 
#[cfg(feature = "stm32f746")]
pub const PARTITION_SIZE: usize = 0x40000;
#[cfg(feature = "stm32f746")]
pub const BOOT_PARTITION_ADDRESS: usize = 0x08040000;
#[cfg(feature = "stm32f746")]
pub const SWAP_PARTITION_ADDRESS: usize = 0x080C0000;
#[cfg(feature = "stm32f746")]
pub const UPDATE_PARTITION_ADDRESS: usize = 0x08080000;
```
- **`RUSTBOOT partition:`** contains the bootloader (its code and data) and a (test) public-key embedded as part of the bootloader image, starts at address `0x0`.
- **`BOOT partition:`** contains boot firmware, starts at address `PARTITION_BOOT_ADDRESS`.
- **`UPDATE partition:`** contains update firmware, starts at address `UPDATE_PARTITION_ADDRESS`. The boot firmware is responsible for downloading and installing the update firmware into this partition via a secure channel.
- **`SWAP partition:`** is the temporary swap space, starts at address `SWAP_PARTITION_ADDRESS`. 

## Compiling, Signing and Programming: 

Now that we have properly partitioned the `stm32f746`'s on-board flash-memory, the next step is - `compiling, signing and programming ` 

We will compile the following 
- bootloader 
- boot and update firmware

sign both pieces of firmware with a (test) [private-key](https://github.com/nihalpasham/rustBoot/tree/main/boards/rbSigner/keygen) and finally create valid [`rustBoot mcu-images`](../arch/images.md#mcu-image-format) i.e. signed boot and update firmware images.

> Note:
> - `ecc256.der` contains a public-key and a private-key, the first 32 bytes being the public-key and the rest being the private-key, used to sign the firmware. We are using it for testing purposes only.

Compiling, signing and programming can be performed via a single command

```Terminal
cargo stm32f746 build-sign-flash rustBoot [boot-ver] [updt-ver]
```
> Note:
> - The `updt-ver` number should be greater than `boot-ver`.

This will build, sign and flash all 3 packages (i.e. bootloader + boot-fw + update-fw) onto the board.

> Note: 
> - The corresponding public-key is embedded in the bootloader's source.
> - In order to test this example, you'll have to install a couple of pre-requisites - probe-rs-cli, python3  

Here's the command line output that should be produced.

```Terminal
udayakumar@udayakumar-VirtualBox:~/devspace/rustBoot$ cargo stm32f746 build-sign-flash rustBoot 1234 1235
    Finished dev [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 0.04s
     Running `target/debug/xtask stm32f746 build-sign-flash rustBoot 1234 1235`
$ cargo build --release
   Compiling stm32f746_bootfw v0.1.0 (/home/udayakumar/devspace/rustBoot/boards/firmware/stm32f746/boot_fw_blinky_green)
    Finished release [optimized] target(s) in 0.99s
$ cargo build --release
   Compiling stm32f746_updtfw v0.1.0 (/home/udayakumar/devspace/rustBoot/boards/firmware/stm32f746/updt_fw_blinky_red)
    Finished release [optimized] target(s) in 0.95s
$ cargo build --release
    Finished release [optimized] target(s) in 0.09s
$ rust-objcopy -I elf32-littlearm ../../target/thumbv7em-none-eabihf/release/stm32f746_bootfw -O binary stm32f746_bootfw.bin
$ rust-objcopy -I elf32-littlearm ../../target/thumbv7em-none-eabihf/release/stm32f746_updtfw -O binary stm32f746_updtfw.bin
$ cargo run mcu-image ../boards/sign_images/signed_images/stm32f746_bootfw.bin nistp256 ../boards/sign_images/keygen/ecc256.der 1234
   Compiling libc v0.2.126
   Compiling rustBoot v0.1.0 (/home/udayakumar/devspace/rustBoot/rustBoot)
   Compiling filetime v0.2.17
   Compiling rbsigner v0.1.0 (/home/udayakumar/devspace/rustBoot/rbsigner)
    Finished dev [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 2.17s
     Running `/home/udayakumar/devspace/rustBoot/target/debug/rbsigner mcu-image ../boards/sign_images/signed_images/stm32f746_bootfw.bin nistp256 ../boards/sign_images/keygen/ecc256.der 1234`

Update type:    Firmware
Curve type:       nistp256
Input image:      stm32f746_bootfw.bin
Public key:       ecc256.der
Image version:    1234
Output image:     stm32f746_bootfw_v1234_signed.bin
Calculating sha256 digest...
Signing the firmware...
Done.
Output image successfully created with 2780 bytes.

$ cargo run mcu-image ../boards/sign_images/signed_images/stm32f746_updtfw.bin nistp256 ../boards/sign_images/keygen/ecc256.der 1235
    Finished dev [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 0.05s
     Running `/home/udayakumar/devspace/rustBoot/target/debug/rbsigner mcu-image ../boards/sign_images/signed_images/stm32f746_updtfw.bin nistp256 ../boards/sign_images/keygen/ecc256.der 1235`

Update type:    Firmware
Curve type:       nistp256
Input image:      stm32f746_updtfw.bin
Public key:       ecc256.der
Image version:    1235
Output image:     stm32f746_updtfw_v1235_signed.bin
Calculating sha256 digest...
Signing the firmware...
Done.
Output image successfully created with 2748 bytes.

$ probe-rs-cli erase --chip stm32f746zgtx
$ probe-rs-cli download --format Bin --base-address 0x8040000 --chip stm32f746zgtx stm32f746_bootfw_v1234_signed.bin
     Erasing sectors ✔ [00:00:03] [################################################################################################################] 256.00KiB/256.00KiB @ 72.27KiB/s (eta 0s )
 Programming pages   ✔ [00:00:02] [##################################################################################################################]  3.00KiB/ 3.00KiB @     353B/s (eta 0s )
    Finished in 6.153s
$ probe-rs-cli download --format Bin --base-address 0x8080000 --chip stm32f746zgtx stm32f746_updtfw_v1235_signed.bin
     Erasing sectors ✔ [00:00:03] [################################################################################################################] 256.00KiB/256.00KiB @ 72.63KiB/s (eta 0s )
 Programming pages   ✔ [00:00:02] [##################################################################################################################]  3.00KiB/ 3.00KiB @     351B/s (eta 0s )
    Finished in 6.171s
$ cargo flash --chip stm32f746zgtx --release
    Finished release [optimized] target(s) in 0.08s
    Flashing /home/udayakumar/devspace/rustBoot/boards/target/thumbv7em-none-eabihf/release/stm32f746
     Erasing sectors ✔ [00:00:02] [##################################################################################################################] 64.00KiB/64.00KiB @ 22.76KiB/s (eta 0s )
 Programming pages   ✔ [00:00:20] [##################################################################################################################] 43.00KiB/43.00KiB @  1.88KiB/s (eta 0s )
    Finished in 22.968s
udayakumar@udayakumar-VirtualBox:~/devspace/rustBoot$ 

```
## Verifying:

`blinky leds` are used to confirm that rustBoot works as expected. Here's the flow

- Upon supplying power to the board, rustBoot takes over 
    - validates the firmware image stored in the BOOT partition
    - verifies the signature attached against a known public key stored in the rustBoot image.
- If the signature checks out, rustBoot boots into the bootfw and blinks a `green-led` for a few seconds, 
    - post which, the boot firmware triggers the update and performs a system reset. 
- Upon reset, the rustBoot again takes over 
    - validates the firmware image stored in the UPDATE partition 
    - swaps the contents of the BOOT and the UPDATE partitions
    - marks the new firmware in the BOOT partition as in state STATE_TESTING
    - boots into the UPDATE'd firmware 
- Now that execution-control has been transferred to the UPDATE'd firmware
    - it will attempt to blink a `red-led` 
    - and set a `confirmation flag` to indicate that the update was successful.
    - post which, it continuously blinks a `red-led`.
